There is an easier way to update the stock price
whenever a new stock symbol is passed in on this property or through the attribute bound to the property.
I will comment out
this logic in componentDidUpdate to leave it there for reference and I will comment out
the initial stock symbol and I will also not set it here in componentDidLoad anymore because stencil
actually has a built-in method that allows us to watch to changes to our props and that is exactly
what I need here.
I need to watch for a change in my properties to react to them and for that, I will add a new method
and it's a good practice to add it right below the prop it belongs to which I'll name stockSymbolChanged.
Now this does not execute like this
when the stock symbol changes, we need to tell stencil to execute this method
when stock symbol changes and we do this by adding a new decorator to this method,
the watch decorator which just as all other decorators needs to be imported from @stencil/core. The watch
decorator then takes the prop name as an argument,
so in my case, StockSymbol and make sure you spell this exactly as the property is named here.
So stock symbol here, stock symbol here and now stencil sets up a watcher behind the scenes that will
ensure that whichever code we have in this method runs whenever this property receives a new value
and actually, stencil will pass us the new value as an argument here and we know that will be a string
and the old value as well
and if we need to do any checks, we can do that in here.
So here I can check if new value is unequal to old value
otherwise I don't want to execute any error code
but if these two values are not equal, then in here, I will call this fetchStockPrice for my new value
which is the new stock symbol.
And now with that if I save that and I reload here,
I cleared my network tab and now, we can enter Microsoft here again and you'll see it update on the left
and you'll see that one HTTP request was made.
So indeed this watcher did work and this method did execute whenever we entered a new stock symbol,
in this case by setting a new value to the bound attribute. And this of course can be very convenient
because this now allows us to conveniently react to changes to any property,
you can of course add multiple watchers for different properties and execute any logic we need
to execute upon such a change.
Now there's a little optimization I want to do here, now that we have this watcher in place which will
fetch the stock price whenever we have a new stock symbol we're looking for,
I will turn this prop into a mutable prop and I will also reflect it back to the attribute so that
now when we trigger onFetchStockPrice, when we click that button, I don't set this stock symbol here
equal to the stock input,
instead there, I just set this stock symbol and this is now my mutable prop, equal to whatever the user
entered and I will not make an HTTP request here but by setting this here and I can do this because it's
now a mutable prop, I will automatically triggered this watcher and now I'm reusing the code here
and I also as another positive side effects, reflect this back to my attribute.
So now if we reload this, whenever I set a new value here, we get the new price but if I then fetch it
for Apple again,
this also works because of my mutable prop.
Now one little side note,
whenever I set a new value here, it would of course be nice to see that reflected here in the input box
as well.
So therefore here in my watcher, whenever I have a new value, I will set this stock user input equal
to the new value, to have that new propert, that new stock symbol also updated in my input.
So now if I reload this, we start with Apple
but when I change this to Microsoft, we have it updated here and here.
So this is now all working, that's pretty nice
but wouldn't it be nice to be able to search for symbols instead of just having to know them. Well we'll
add a new widget, a new component for that which we can add in the app we're building or not use it, whatever
we want to do
and there, we'll dive into some other interesting advanced features.